---
layout: post
title: My Experience with Bloc
---

Choosing Bloc over other coding boot camps I researched has probably been one of the best decisions I’ve made in my web development journey. I chose Bloc because it best fit my needs. I was not willing or able to quit my current job to go to a brick and mortar coding program. Many of the other programs, online or in-person, were also much more expensive and offered less, in my opinion, than Bloc offered. The mentorship Bloc offers is one of the main reason I ended up choosing this program. My mentor has been an invaluable asset to my education.

JavaScript has been the toughest component for me to learn in this program so far. It was completely foreign to me before starting this program minus the minimal free tutorials I encountered. Learning JavaScript is like trying to learn a foreign language. There are so many intricacies to it. I’ve learned that repetition and consistency is the key to grasping those intricacies. If I didn’t have my mentor and others available for help via the Slack app, I honestly don’t know where I’d be. My mentor has given me extra resources to help further my understanding of JavaScript and I’ve learned some helpful tips from other mentors and fellow students on Slack.

I’m going to be completely honest here. I didn’t pass the first assessment on my first attempt. I was crazy bummed and felt like a total failure.  I was embarrassed even though I know I'm not the only person to ever not pass their assessment on the first try. “Imposter syndrome” hit me hard after that happened. I said to myself, “I shouldn’t be doing this!  What made you think you could take on this monumental task?” Even though I was told and read that it is ok to feel this way, it was still very hard to face. I think we are all our worst critics and that was definitely the case here. As difficult as it was, I stopped sulking, picked myself back (with some encouragement from my mentor as well) and studied hard for the second attempt at passing my assessment. And guess what? I crushed it! I felt like a rock star and I had a newfound confidence that I could continue on through this program.

Learning to build applications and websites has been amazing and frustrating and many other emotions I can’t really put into words! I love puzzles! I love seeing projects come together and turn into something useful. Bloc Jams was my very first project. Learning to build something from scratch like this is very fulfilling. As frustrating as it has been at times, I am still in love with the process and excited for what’s to come in the future.  

Even though I still have some difficulty with JavaScript occasionally, I have a much better understanding of it than I did when I began the program. There are still ups and downs as I continue to work through the program, which is to be expected. I now, and will continue to, try and embrace the high and low points I come across. I’ve come to look at everything as a learning experience. The low points I encounter within this program are teaching me how better attack them in the future. The high points are teaching me that I can and will do this!
