---
layout: post
title: Why I Chose Web Development
___

Web development was not a career I thought I would ever seek out. About a year and a half ago, I was feeling content with my current job, yet not completely satisfied. It’s definitely the best job I’ve ever had up to this point but not something I see myself doing for the rest of my life. I started researching careers I had previously thought were “out of my league”; web development was one of those careers. The whole idea started off as a joke to myself. I said I was going to learn how to code.  After laughing the thought away for a couple weeks, I started going through a few free online tutorials. I found myself really enjoying them as I never thought I would which was very surprising to me. I thought web development involved all kinds of math (side note: I’m not terribly adept at more advanced math which I thought web development involved a lot of) and other concepts I never thought I’d be able to grasp. The more research I did, the more I realized there were many more facets to this career that I previously thought there were. Web development became more and more appealing to me.

Within a few weeks, I felt I had gone as far as I could on my own and decided I needed more formal training. Since this was completely new and foreign to me, I felt formal training would benefit me better than trying to continue to learn it on my own. Next, I started researching more formal ways of learning to code. After doing my due diligence, I chose Bloc because I felt it best suited my current situation and needs. The mentorship, the way the modules are taught and presented, the career services provided, and the tuition reimbursement guarantee are just a few of the reasons I felt Bloc was right for me.

I like a challenge. My discontent with my current “career” path caused me to pursue something that was completely out of my comfort zone; something that would test me; something different than I’ve ever wanted to experience. I wanted to do something I felt I would be good at with further instruction and knowledge. Web development has turned out to be that challenge. While I am still extremely new to this field, I know I can and will be successful with hard work, perseverance and continued education.  

The journey so far has not been without difficulties. I have struggled hard learning some of the concepts like JavaScript. Sometimes I feel like I’m looking at Hieroglyphics. Other times I understand a concept quite well. Because I am a complete newbie, I knew it wouldn’t always be a walk in the park. Some of the obstacles I’ve run into on this journey so far, however, have completely knocked the wind out of my sails at times. I have felt like giving up. I have felt like it was a bad decision to pursue this career path. But then I tell myself that not everything in life is supposed to be easy. The most rewarding goals usually the toughest journeys.  So I continue to pursue this career that will continue to challenge me and hopefully be very fulfilling and rewarding for a long time coming. 
